and advocates of open relationships will
say well if someone gets hurt or someone
feels jealous
it just means that that person needs to
evolve
does nobody get hurt by monogamy
is monogamy truly safe does monogamy
make you
invulnerable to these things she claims
an open relationship
will make you feel vulnerable to
i know open relationships or any other
form of non-monogamous relationships
allude to this
idea of freedom to love without
boundaries to go beyond the rules of
tradition
but in reality this isn't true freedom
someone
always inevitably gets hurt she started
off talking about
freedom but then halfway through such a
short statement
she started talking about vulnerability
having the freedom to try something new
is not the same as being invulnerable
to the consequences freedom and
vulnerability or invulnerability
freedom and responsibility for the
outcomes of the choices you make
these things are not mutually
incompatible
they're mutually inextricable they're
not
to be confused advocates of open
relationships will say
well if someone gets hurt or someone
feels jealous it just means that that
person
needs to evolve does nobody get hurt
by monogamy is monogamy truly
safe does monogamy make you invulnerable
to these things she claims an open
relationship will make you
feel vulnerable to do married people
never feel jealousy how high are the
stakes and consequences
of marriage if it's truly a monogamous
marriage if you are a
virgin at the time of marriage and then
you only ever have sex with that one
person
for the rest of your life you tell me
which is more high risk and which is
more
low risk which one makes us more
vulnerable more prone
to disaster and tragedy if it's an open
relationship
with options and freedom and the
possibility of being
hurt having hurt feelings sure
or if it's committing to traditional
monogamy
one man one woman no options
no freedom till death do us part
that's a high risk gamble and if you
think nobody gets hurt
you're living a lie i think at the core
of the polyamorous argument is this
misguided utopian
idea that the convention of two partners
staying together
is holding us back from experiencing
unbridled
sexuality this is ireland
exotic far away difficult to imagine
ireland isn't it strange how these
overly abstract philosophical
hypothetical ideas
suddenly come into clear crisp focus
when we just bring up the historical
reality
of any particular given example such as
ireland
have you ever googled the history of
marriage
and divorce law in ireland have you ever
i don't know googled
history of gender relations and the
status
of women in ireland it's horrifying it's
been horrifying over the last 50 years
it's been horrifying over the last 500
years it's been horrifying
for the last 2 000
years and ireland is not the worst
example we're not talking about saudi
arabia
we're not talking about the history of
the status of women in china
guys it gets pretty dark but
ireland is dark enough
how is it possible to think there's
nothing
to be rebelled against in the
traditional
legal and cultural reality of what
monogamy
is what monogamy was
what monogamy still tries to be
yes monogamy does represent
an oppressive ideal with an absolutely
terrible track record for the last 2000
years
of human history in myriad cultures
but if we can step away from the
faceless abstractions
to think about an historical example
just one just
anyone whether it's ireland or others
you can just
bring yourself to think from the
grassroots reality
up instead of from the realm of
abstractions in the sky
down this is what you're gonna find
you're gonna find that a great many of
the ideals
being presented by both sides of this
argument are
frankly unbelievable i want to challenge
this idea that being married to one
person for
50 years means you're going to wake up
to one person every day for the rest of
your life the truth is
if you and your partner are both
committed to evolving and continual
growth
you won't be the same people five or
seven years down the line
this is so mind-blowingly stupid
you're gonna reassure people that if
they're married for 50 years it's really
gonna be like having sex with a new
person
every seven years what if what if your
girlfriend
grew up listening to dmx and she grew up
let's just say she had posters on her
wall
of the rapper dmx of this tall lean
muscular black sex symbol and conversely
if you're black watching this video
let's say you're a black man
married to a black woman but she grew up
with posters of justin bieber on her
wall
and fantasizing about justin bieber i
can never look like
dmx and some dude out there who looks
like dmx can never look like justin
bieber you can never
supply that you can wait seven years you
can wait 50 years
if you're going to sleep with the same
person every day they can never
wake up as another person they can never
satisfy that curiosity or that interest
in you
and not all interests are that shallow i
come over again and again
saying look question yourself when
people fantasize
the fantasy version of themself very
often
is much shallower than the reality of
who they are and that's why fantasies
turn out to be so much less erotic or
they're more horrifying in practice than
they
seemed in your mind's eye you can't be
married to someone who's simultaneously
an english literature major
and yet also a chemistry major i mean
there may be
different kinds of intellectual and
emotional perspectives on life
that you want to if you can have that in
your life without sleeping with more
than one person
that's great good for you but if you can
have that in your life and also sleep
with more than one person
why can't we say good for you too i see
more discussion about open relationships
and polyamorous relationships
vibrating throughout social media spaces
a lot
more than the beauty of monogamous
relationships which is likely due to the
fact
that there's this belief that monogamy
is this institution that we have to
fight against and question have you ever
been to indonesia
have you ever been to malaysia do you
really think
do you really think there's any truth to
this claim that monogamy is not
an institution we have to fight against
um
um how about how about a little closer
to home
how about italy how about any culture
that's just steeped in christian or even
jewish
tradition have you ever once in your
life googled
how divorce court works in the modern
state of israel
you're in for a surprise after careful
thought and
consideration and lots and lots of
listening i've come to my own conclusion
that open relationships just don't work
the only argument she presents is to
compare an
idealized notion of what the best
possible monogamous marriage is like
to a cartoonish notion of what an
average or awful open relationship is
like that's the method she uses
throughout the video
again and again jealousy is not an
indication
of weakness being jealous that your
partner is sexually intimate with
another person is a very
normal human response and maybe that
response is normal
for a reason because jumping into bed
with someone else who is not your
partner is damaging to your relationship
here we have the merely inevitable
appeal to nature fallacy right
it's natural and normal and therefore
good
is that the next step is that the next
step we're supposed to make a lot of
things
are natural and normal and evil
revenge people desire
and yearn for revenge and it's existed
in all societies
how about slavery how about men
wanting to buy and own slaves
in part to sexually exploit them
have you even read the bible that's
existed in
most societies throughout most of human
history
and we have now an extraordinary
struggle against human nature
in trying to repress limit eliminate
slavery and forms of prostitution that
come
pretty close to human slavery you may
well argue
that jealousy is natural and normal
that doesn't mean it's good that doesn't
mean it's optimal
for centuries and centuries christians
have argued
that christian marriage is natural and
normal
that doesn't mean it's good that doesn't
mean it's
remotely optimal not just for one
individual
might it be sub-optimal but when you
scale it up
for society as a whole it's awful for a
whole lot of people
it's awful for a whole lot of us living
together and in case
you forgot in judaism and islam
especially
but even in christianity people managed
to convince themselves
that cutting off the human foreskin
engaging in so-called circumcision
even cutting off the clitoris female
services was
natural and normal and part and parcel
of this tradition of monogamous marriage
so if you're wondering just how far
human beings can take it
going down this natural and normal and
inevitable equals good
road it's taken a long time
for society to shake off the shackles
of those hallowed preconceptions
personally i think
open relationships are a sign that a
couple is not willing to do the hard
work
to access the hot and steamy stuff that
monogamy has to offer
i think suggesting opening your
relationship and your bed to other
partners is a lazy way of trying to fix
something that is
fundamentally broken or is a
demonstration of simply wanting to give
into desires and distractions
remember just because you have the
desire or the urge to bone someone
doesn't mean you should
as human beings we have a lot of desires
and urges
but it doesn't necessarily mean that
they are justified or need to be acted
upon
okay so let's turn that around and
question the other
side of the equation what if you have
the desire
as a man to dominate and control
your wife what if you have the desire
to control everyone your girlfriend
spends time with speaks with and sleeps
with
and to deny your girlfriend the
opportunity to act out this
fantasy she's had since she first
started listening to hip-hop music which
she was 14 years old and she kind of
wants to sleep with a guy like dmx
just two or three times in her life who
knows is that is that
a healthy desire for the man to want to
repress
and control the girlfriend and feel like
he's the only man
she's ever had sex is it healthy for men
to want to marry
virgins and to dominate and control that
girl as she turns into a woman
and a crone and be the only sexual
experience that woman is read
and vice versa what if a woman
falls in love with somewhat nerdy
looking jewish guy who grew up
in new york city let's just say he was a
graffiti artist in new york city
he was into hip-hop culture and this guy
grew up his whole life
watching music videos with these
beautiful african-american models
and it's always been there at the back
of his mind just once in his life just
two or three times
he's got to have the experience of
sleeping with a woman
who looks like these icons of beauty
that he's known
from hip-hop culture but that he has
never been able to really
spend time with her actually let's say
he settles down with let's say he's a
virgin
when he marries a young woman from new
york city let's say she's also jewish
and university educated
they have a whole lot of other things in
common but not this
i mean sex by its very
shallowness evades all the other
considerations
that make a marriage good and meaningful
and rewarding and people
people get married to people they're not
attracted to people
consciously make the decision to marry
someone who's ugly
and bad in bed because they have other
redeeming qualities that may really be
more important and more meaningful but
guess what you can never be dmx
neither can i and if you're this guy's
wife you can never be that hip-hop model
from a
jay-z video i really think if a couple
is
considering opening their relationship
there's probably something at the core
of their relationship that's broken i
think suggesting opening your
relationship and your bed to other
partners
is a lazy way of trying to fix something
that is fundamentally broken
but her assumption and her assertion is
that sleeping with another partner is a
way
a lazy way to try to fix something
that's fundamentally broken how dare you
you ever heard of bisexuality
what if a woman is in love with a man
and gets married to a man
but she's bisexual a white man can't
turn into a black man
but much less can a man turn into a
woman
it seems the biggest draw away from
monogamy is this
imagined idea that sex with one partner
for the rest of your life
is inevitably boring are you gonna make
the counter argument
that it's not boring for anyone ever
have you ever known a woman who got
married to a bisexual man
it's not just about boredom but let's
face it even if it were
even if it were there's no way any of us
can make the dogmatic claim that each
and every marriage is not boring that
boredom
isn't a legitimate problem some some
some married couples must have to deal
with
i i happen to have a very gratifying sex
life
every time i make videos talking about
it i get hate mail
i'm not gonna come out here and take my
own relationship
and my own sex life as a standard of
normalcy
that i assume anyone else achieves in
their relationships in their marriages
ever you have to recognize the number of
people
who could be happy with just one sexual
partner
is a minority and then within that
there's a very small minority of people
who happen to be able to get married
with someone who
is in that way a perfect match for them
and we all know why we're all working
with a limited talent pool that then
gets more and more limited
when you think about the facts and
factors you require
to be in a meaningful relationship with
somebody to have a working family life
with somebody
to have a career with somebody so on and
so forth
even though we might like to pretend
that sexual gratification
is the most important factor in choosing
a boyfriend girlfriend husband or wife
it's not it gets demoted to third place
fifth place
tenth place real quick i really think if
a couple
is considering opening their
relationship
there's probably something at the core
of their relationship that's broken
people who want to have more than one
sexual partner
per lifetime we're not saying more than
one a week
we're not saying more than one a month
more than one per
lifetime there's nothing broken with
them
there's nothing that they need to fix to
make the magic
of monogamy happen monogamy is a broken
paradigm inherited from our
monotheistic cultural history
and forms of prostitution that come
pretty close
to human slavery i said human slavery
because i'm vegan
human slavery
my veganism is showing